+++
authors = ["Xuan Jin"]
draft = false
title = "My blog post project"
date = "2023-10-14T22:39:33-07:00"
description = "blog post journey"
tags = [
"blog",
"projects",
]
categories = [
"October, 2023",
"projects",
]
series = ["Theme Demo"]
aliases = []
+++

# My blog post project

I have been writing on wordpress for a while now, on and off, I have been on wordpress for about 15 years. I still need to move everything from there to here. However, I am not waiting until I get everything sorted out before I start on something. I am going to get things started instead.

Wordpress is great, I can focus on the content, however, there are some things I don't like about it. Since I am not using the upgraded and paid version, if you don't have an ad blocker, you will get a lot of ads. Not just that, after wordpress upgraded their editing tool for the blogs, it is so much harder to get the posts out now, you need to copy paragraph by paragraph. Surely, there are more functionalities to do format and all, but making a copy is also getting super annoying.

I want to have a place that I have where I can do the following:

-   still focusing on writing
-   be able to do darkmode on the blog
-   put the blogs in date order
-   clean and clear blog
-   maintain all basic functionality of a blog
-   be able to showcase my work on the blog

I used Hugo before, Hugo is driven by GO. But I found at the time, I hated the way it was constructed for some reason, I probably didn't find the right theme. I am going to give this another try. I did find this new theme, coder, it is exactly what I am looking for. Currently, most of the customizations are not done yet, I have kept the theme, and just changed the links and stuff. There is still so much more to do, which I am working on right now. I have been using github to help manage the project and potential features.

The way I see this is, I am going to treat this blog project as if it is a product, and I am the client who want to make a product.

First: I listed out the features I am looking for in this blog/product.

Second: I priorized the features I absolutely have to have on DAY ONE. I started tackle those first.

Here are the features I want:

-   Dark mode switch
-   simple home page
-   Tag posts
-   Different ways to organize the post
-   Search feature
-   password controlled content
-   Project lists
-   Stats tracking

Here are the items I absolutely need on DAY ONE:

-   Dark mode switch
-   simple home page
-   Tag posts
-   Different ways to organize the post
-   Project lists

Now, with that new list, I started searching on what theme from HUGO would fit the best, and that's how I came down to that Coder theme.

For the rest of the features, I created them as an item in the project in github to help keep track. Going forward, I use the project in github to keep track of what's next. When I am ready, I will convert an item to an issue, and assign it to myself to work on it. As I am building and going through the items, if there is something not working, I log it as an issue in the issue log in github and tag it as bug.

You can manage a project in github now basically, I love it!!!

One thing I want to call out though, navigate from the repo to project is really easy, but navigate from the project back to the repo is really hard, haha, or maybe I am doing this wrong..
